{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Roboto-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Roboto-Regular;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red102\green102\blue102;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c47563\c47565\c47564;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa60\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 (UN)HEALTHY MASSACHUSETTS\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs30 \cf3 \strokec3 Identifying a Focus\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa400\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs22 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 \strokec2 Goal\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa400\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs22 \cf2 \strokec2 What does it mean to be a \'93big problem\'94 in healthcare? What does it mean to be a \'93biggest problem\'94 in health in the state of Massachusetts? Naively chasing data to construct a top ten list is fraught with problems. Issues are connected, messy, and don\'92t always lend themselves to being quantitatively measured. If the issue can be measured quantitatively, the measures of different issues don\'92t have the same units. It feels like comparing, not oranges to apples, but navel oranges to empire apples.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 \strokec2 Progress\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs22 \cf2 \strokec2 We have identified a catalogue of issues that are cited as problems in MA in documents such as the State Health Assessment produced by the state Department of Public Health Commissioner's Office. The State Assessment relies heavily on Community Health Assessments (CHAs) from around the state. These are self-reported documents prepared by hospitals and medical centers using interviews and focus groups. The reports are not standardized and non-quantitative. The Health Assessment augments those findings with statistics which compare the state values to national values, show worsening trends, and compare values for minority groups. Some examples of data available in the Assessment:\
\pard\tx360\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 \uc0\u9679 	Infant mortality rate for non-hispanic blacks is 2.1x that for whites\
\uc0\u9679 	Cost of of infant child care is highest in country\
\uc0\u9679 	Infant mortality rate is up over several years\
\uc0\u9679 	Death rate due to opioid use is up 5x since 2000\
\pard\tx360\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\sl276\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 \uc0\u9679 	Death rate due to opioid use is ~3x US average.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 The Department of Public Health also issued an analysis, or scan, of the body of Community Health Assessments. They identified statewide trends and concerns by counting assessments containing key terms across four categories:\
\pard\tx360\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 1.	Health Issues (e.g. mental health, substance abuse, cancer)\
2.	Barriers to Health (e.g. transportation, lack of affordable housing)\
3.	Barriers to Health Care (e.g. cost of care, health literacy)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\sl276\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 4.	Priority Populations (e.g. elderly, youth, latino)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 The paper then presents four lists of issues ranked by incidence count. This gives a feel for what issues are prevalent across the state. Indeed, it presents a simple, pan-state, method to rank issues in health. It relies on regional experts and content experts interviews. However, there are several downsides to this method:\
\pard\tx360\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 \uc0\u9679 	Although each assessment probably covers roughly similar sized communities, this method may bias for or against urban regions.\
\uc0\u9679 	Some assessments base these priorities on quantitative data, some do not. There is no standard to these data, and we do not know what biases go into claiming priorities.\
\uc0\u9679 	Politics are mixed in as these assessments are used for federal funding.\
\uc0\u9679 	Unclear what makes something a \'93priority\'94. Is it a priority because it is a problem (data) or because they decide this is the time to act (policy)?\
\pard\tx360\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\sl276\slmult1\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 \uc0\u9679 	The method implicitly values universality of a problem over severity. If two towns, and only two town, in Massachusetts sank into the ocean, it wouldn\'92t make the top ten list.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf2 \strokec2 Next Step\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa360\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs22 \cf2 \strokec2 Equipped with the statewide Assessment, the community based priority lists, and assorted other national rankings of health issues, we make a plan. I\'92ve dreamed up a few possibly interesting/useful ways to think of big problems in Massachusetts:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 Comparisons against US averages\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa360\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs22 \cf2 \strokec2 We rank the issues/problems by how Massachusetts fairs relative the country at large. In this case we\'92re focussing on Massachusetts in the context of the country. The issues we fair worst at are most likely those we can solve at the state level. Each issue would have a different metric, and the comparison against the US would be a \'93n-fold-worse\'94 statement, like \'93Death rate due to opioid use is ~3x US average.\'94 We would need to find quantitative data at the state level for all the issues we\'92re interested in, which is probably doable but time consuming.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 Correlations and relationships\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs22 \cf2 \strokec2 One challenge of identifying an issue as \'93bigger\'94 than another is that issues are related, linked, and causal. For example, the rate of preterm births in MA among black women is very high compared to US mean rate. Preterm birth rate is influenced by inadequate prenatal care, which in turn can be due to difficulty in transportation, and poverty, and systemic inequalities and high costs of living. Which of these issues do we identify as the \'93problem\'94?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 Rather than trying to unravel these correlations and evaluate the impact of individual problems versus their antecedents or effects, we analyze the correlations themselves. The analysis of the Community Health Assessments has captured a town-by-town distribution of health issues, health barriers, and focus populations, across the state. We also have access to demographic, economic, and other census data for each town. It may be illuminating to find and develop visualizations for the correlations and relationships between these various issues and metrics.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa200\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 \
\
}